Can FEB 's speeches has an predictive effect on the Financial asset's daily return ?

Executive Summary

We have been taught that many principles try to explain stock price movement, from Random Walk theory, Efficient Market Hypotheses, to irrational trader. What is obvious from this evolution of theories in explaining the market price is that more emphasize is on the effect of trader’s emotional changes to stock’s price movement. In this analysis, we are also interested in study how positive or negative emotion injected into speeches can affect the stock price. However instead of predicting the price, we run logistic regression to test on how well our model can predict a positive or negate daily return of stocks. We extend our analysis to test on stocks, commodities, interest rate and foreign currency pair. Each category of assets is represented by S&P 500, NASDAQ, Gold index ,10 years Treasury Bond rate, and EURUSD. We generate sentiment score from the FED ‘s speeches from 2006 to 2023 and use the scores as the X variable in our model. This analysis report is arranged in this order; started with Introduction which includes the literature review on this field of study, data and methodology used in this analysis, findings and shortfall, conclusion, appendices and references. Our model found a high accuracy on FED ‘s speeches in predicting equity and foreign exchange market than commodities and interest rate. However, our analysis is not perfect and we suggest improvement to sentiment analysis with financial specialized lexicon instead of general used lexicon.
